README.md, before:

# hector-v1
H.E.C.T.O.R v1 – AI butler web app.

## Networking

The application performs outbound HTTP requests to several APIs. Some
environments set `HTTP_PROXY`/`HTTPS_PROXY` variables that point to an
unreachable proxy, which prevents network access. The app now removes these
variables at startup so it can connect directly.

## Logging to Google Sheets

Set the `GOOGLE_SHEETS_CREDS` environment variable to the path of your
service account JSON credentials file. When configured, all user and assistant
messages are appended to the `HECTOR_Memory_Log` Google Sheet for reference.
If the variable is omitted or the file is missing, the application simply
skips loading and logging conversation history.

## Gmail OAuth

The application can send and read email once it is authorized with a Google
account. Follow these steps:

1. In the **Google Cloud Console**, create a project and enable the **Gmail API**.
2. Under **Credentials**, create an **OAuth client ID** for a web application and
   download the JSON file containing the client secrets.
3. Set the `GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRETS` environment variable to the path of this
   JSON file. If the variable is not set, the app looks for `credentials.json` in
   the repository root.
4. (Optional) Set `GMAIL_TOKEN_FILE` to control where the OAuth token is stored.
   It defaults to `gmail_token.json` in the repository root.
5. Run the server and visit `/oauth2login` in your browser to authorize the
   application. Once authorization completes you can instruct H.E.C.T.O.R to
   send email. Say something like “send an email to foo@example.com about the
   meeting.” The assistant responds with a hidden JSON payload that the server
   uses to dispatch the message.
   
Set the `GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRETS` environment variable to the path of your
Google OAuth client secrets JSON. The application defaults to `credentials.json`
in the repository root if this variable is not provided. The OAuth token is
saved to `gmail_token.json` unless you override the path with
`GMAIL_TOKEN_FILE`.

## Running the app

Install Python dependencies and launch the server locally:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 app.py
```

If you skip the `pip install` step, the server fails to start with errors like
`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'openai'`, which means `/oauth2login` will
refuse to connect because nothing is listening on port 5002.

The server listens on port `5002` by default. Hosting services such as Render
often set the `PORT` environment variable to something else (sometimes as high
as `10000`). You can override the port manually when launching the server:

```bash
PORT=5001 python3 app.py
```

## Login

The web interface requires a simple ID and password before showing the boot screen.
Set `HECTOR_LOGIN_ID` and `HECTOR_LOGIN_PASSWORD` to control the accepted
credentials. They default to `admin` and `pass`.

The login state now lasts only for a single page load. Once the index page
renders, the session is cleared so the login form reappears the next time the
site is opened. You can also manually log out by visiting `/logout`.

Commit message:

docs: explain verifying Gmail OAuth

README.md, after:

# hector-v1
H.E.C.T.O.R v1 – AI butler web app.

## Networking

The application performs outbound HTTP requests to several APIs. Some
environments set `HTTP_PROXY`/`HTTPS_PROXY` variables that point to an
unreachable proxy, which prevents network access. The app now removes these
variables at startup so it can connect directly.

## Logging to Google Sheets

Set the `GOOGLE_SHEETS_CREDS` environment variable to the path of your
service account JSON credentials file. When configured, all user and assistant
messages are appended to the `HECTOR_Memory_Log` Google Sheet for reference.
If the variable is omitted or the file is missing, the application simply
skips loading and logging conversation history.

## Gmail OAuth

The application can send and read email once it is authorized with a Google
account. Follow these steps:

1. In the **Google Cloud Console**, create a project and enable the **Gmail API**.
2. Under **Credentials**, create an **OAuth client ID** for a web application and
   download the JSON file containing the client secrets.
3. Set the `GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRETS` environment variable to the path of this
   JSON file. If the variable is not set, the app looks for `credentials.json` in
   the repository root.
4. (Optional) Set `GMAIL_TOKEN_FILE` to control where the OAuth token is stored.
   It defaults to `gmail_token.json` in the repository root.
5. Run the server and visit `/oauth2login` in your browser to authorize the
   application. Once authorization completes you can instruct H.E.C.T.O.R to
   send email. Say something like “send an email to foo@example.com about the
   meeting.” The assistant responds with a hidden JSON payload that the server
   uses to dispatch the message.
6. Verify that the token file works by reading your inbox. With the server
   running, open `http://localhost:5002/api/email/read` in a browser or run
   `curl http://localhost:5002/api/email/read`. A JSON list of recent messages
   confirms that the Gmail connection is active.
   
Set the `GOOGLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRETS` environment variable to the path of your
Google OAuth client secrets JSON. The application defaults to `credentials.json`
in the repository root if this variable is not provided. The OAuth token is
saved to `gmail_token.json` unless you override the path with
`GMAIL_TOKEN_FILE`.

## Running the app

Install Python dependencies and launch the server locally:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
python3 app.py
```

If you skip the `pip install` step, the server fails to start with errors like
`ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'openai'`, which means `/oauth2login` will
refuse to connect because nothing is listening on port 5002.

The server listens on port `5002` by default. Hosting services such as Render
often set the `PORT` environment variable to something else (sometimes as high
as `10000`). You can override the port manually when launching the server:

```bash
PORT=5001 python3 app.py
```

## Login

The web interface requires a simple ID and password before showing the boot screen.
Set `HECTOR_LOGIN_ID` and `HECTOR_LOGIN_PASSWORD` to control the accepted
credentials. They default to `admin` and `pass`.

The login state now lasts only for a single page load. Once the index page
renders, the session is cleared so the login form reappears the next time the
site is opened. You can also manually log out by visiting `/logout`.
